# 🧐 iExec Overview

> Reading 🕒 4 mins

Great, intro is done, now let's dive into the key concepts. What are the main
components of the iExec stack?

## 👷 The user case

First step is to introduce you to the iExec stack through a use case. We'll then
decompose each component of the stack and explain how they interact with each
other.

**Imagine** you're a research scientist with a valuable dataset that you want to
apply algorithms to or even monetize while ensuring it remains secure and
confidential. You need a **technology** for the confidential computation and a
**tool** to protect and manage access to your data.

It's where iExec comes in! We provide a **protocol** and **developer tools**
that allow you to:

- Protect
- Manage
- Monetize
- Compute the data

We are **revolutionizing** the way data is handled within the **Web3 ecosystem**
by combining **the power of confidential computing and blockchain**.

## 🧩 The Protocol

Let's start by understanding the first puzzle piece of our stack, the
fundational bricks... (epic violin starts playing) :

[**The iExec protocol**](https://protocol.docs.iex.ec/)

It's a mix between an **off-chain** part with the **TEE (Trusted Execution
Environment, which allows data to be processed securely)** and an **on-chain**
part with our **smart contract** called POCO (Proof of Contribution). This smart
contract acts as a band leader, creating **synergy** between the power of
**confidential computing** and the **transparency & immutability of the
blockchain**.

::: tip 🚨**Smart Contract**

A smart contract is a piece of code on the blockchain that automatically
performs tasks and enforces agreements without needing a middleman.

🚨**TEE (Trusted Execution Environment)**

Think of TEEs as secure zones in a computing environment where your sensitive
data can be processed safely, without being stored, see or altered by anyone
even if the data are computed on a malicious computer far, far away in the
galaxy, the magic that happens inside the TEE is called **confidential
computing**.

:::

## 🧩 The Key Features

The **iExec protocol** unlock some amazing features like:

### 🔑 Confidential Computing

Confidential computing ensures that your sensitive data remains private and
secure during processing (more technical details about confidential computing
with
[Intel SGX Enclave](https://www.intel.com/content/dam/develop/external/us/en/documents/overview-of-intel-sgx-enclave-637284.pdf)).
This is crucial because it allows you to run computations on sensitive data,
without exposing it to any external threats.

### 🔑 Privacy and User Choice

iExec puts **control** back in your hands. With iExec, you decide what data is
shared, with whom, and for what purpose. As an environmental scientist, you can
securely compute or share your findings and datasets with collaborators without
worrying about unauthorized access.

### 🔑 Monetize Your data

One of the coolest features is that our technology allows you to monetize your
digital assets. For example, if you have a bunch of sensitive data, you can
monetize it by lending it for computing or selling it directly.

## 🧩 Key takeaways

- **iExec Protocol** is the foundation of our stack, combining TEE and
  blockchain to enable confidential computing and data management.
- **Confidential computing** is the magic that happens inside the TEE, ensuring
  that your sensitive data remains private and secure during processing.

## 💫The Next steps

Quick wrap up: Our protocol, composed of **TEE and Blockchain**, enables key
features such as **confidential computing, data management, and monetization**
and, teasing you with the next chapter, built on top of the protocol, we have
our **Developer’s Tools**.

They capture the essence and power of confidential computing and blockchain
technology, abstracting away the complexity. Drum roll 🥁 ... the devtool we are
going to discover is **DataProtector**.🚀
